# Data-Visualization-Interactive-Webpage
This dataset contains details of health inspections and scores in the greater Dallas area dating back to October 2016. There are a total of 51,679 individual inspections, with each report containing the name of the establishment inspected, the physical location of the establishment, the date the inspection was conducted, the overall score for the inspection, and the point deduction for the individual violations. The data is provided by the Dallas Code Compliance Services Department and is updated monthly on the Dallas Open Data website. Questions to be asked from this dataset include: (1) Is there a trend of a specific restaurant’s inspection scores over time? (2) Do inspection scores vary by region? (3) Is there a correlation between the number of violations and total inspection score? (4) Where are the “best/worst” places to eat in the greater Dallas area?
DATA & MODELING APPROACH
The original dataset was available in multiple forms (CSV, JSON, API). Multiple processes were utilized to extract and visualize the data to answer specific questions. After confirming cleanliness of the data, JSON data was extracted from the Socrata Open Data API (SODA) for the ability to filter, query, and aggregate. Additionally, the CSV containing the most recent 51,000 health inspections was downloaded from the Dallas Open Data website. A column was added to the CSV to calculate the total number of violations per restaurant, then all additional columns were deleted so that only “Establishment Name”, “Inspection Score”, and “Total Number of Violations” remained. No additional pre-analysis work was required to use this dataset. Several different methods were utilized to answer specific questions from the dataset: (1) A line graph was designed from JSON data extracted with the SODA API and developed through Plotly to visualize trends of restaurant health inspection scores over time. (2) A similar approach was implemented and a bar graph was developed through Plotly to visualize inspection scores filtered by zip code. (3) A scatter plot was designed with Plotly using data from the CSV file to visualize the impact on inspection score versus total violations. (4) A heatmap was generated with Leaflet.js to visualize areas in Dallas that had a concentrated amount of either “high” or “low” inspection scores. 
